---
title:        Week 36, 2016 - Android woes; Apple taxes
slug:         week-36-2016
blog:         ig.nore.me  
author:       Arjen Schwarz  
Date:         2016-09-05T20:30:50+10:00
categories:   ["Weekly Notes"]
Description:  "A quiet week for tech news, but there were various pieces of Android related bad news, and I'll want to mention Apple's tax issues."
---

A quiet week for tech news, but there were various pieces of Android related bad news, and I'll want to mention Apple's tax issues.

# Android woes

After last week's release of Nougat, some new things came to light. I was pretty clear in my disappointment of various parties regarding their support of Nougat for newer phones, but [this article][arsnougat] from Ars Technica highlights another party: chip maker Qualcomm.

It seems that Qualcomm will not provide the necessary support for some of their older chips, despite that these were still being used in phones released as late as the end of 2015. According to the article this is a bit of a vicious circle: the device manufacturers don't usually update phones more than 2 years old, so Qualcomm doesn't bother either, which means the device manufacturers *can't* update the phones. It's not a situation that makes anyone look good, but I can highly recommend the article for all the details.

The big thing in Android news was [exploding batteries][note7recall] from Samsung's new Note 7. From everything I've read this seems like a really good phone, so it's a shame for the people who bought it that it's been recalled. There should be replacements showing up reasonably soon, but obviously for anyone who just bought it[^anyone] this won't do Samsung's reputation any good. While I don't care about how a huge corporation feels[^corpfeel], I do feel sorry for the people who bought this phone and now have to deal with this[^applegate].

Speaking of phones, Google has apparently [cancelled their project Ara][ara]. This was their plan to make a modular phone, that would allow you to change out bits and pieces to make a fully customized phone. To be honest, I'm not really surprised at this. While the idea is interesting, and I wouldn't mind playing around with it, I don't see there being a big market for it. It will be interesting for some people, but the vast majority of the market will likely prefer a more integrated design. Similar to how there isn't a big market for modular laptops.

[arsnougat]: http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2016/08/why-isnt-your-old-phone-getting-nougat-theres-blame-enough-to-go-around/

[note7recall]: http://www.cnet.com/au/news/samsung-confirms-global-recall-replacement-galaxy-note-7-faulty-battery/

[^anyone]: Or anyone else really.

[^corpfeel]: Every major corporation screws someone over one way or the other while earning huge amounts of money.

[^applegate]: Yes, the iPhone usually has some kind of "gate" immediately after its release as well. Those aren't as severe as this however, no matter how bad Apple sometimes reacts to them. At least Samsung didn't tell people they're [charging it wrong][holdwrong].

[holdwrong]: http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/events/iphone-4-death-grip?full=1

[ara]: http://www.androidpolice.com/2016/09/01/report-google-stopped-working-project-ara/

# Apple taxes

It's not just Android that had negative things this week, the same goes for Apple with regards to their taxes. As I'm neither a business analyst nor very good with taxes, I have no intention of going into this deeply. The short version is that the [EU believes][eutax] that Apple should pay more taxes to Ireland than they have, and Apple (and seemingly Ireland's government[^irelanddisagree]) [disagree][appletax]. Which side is right here is as usual in these case unclear, and it's probably going to result in years of legal proceedings. 

The amount Apple is told to pay isn't even all that large[^bigtax], but obviously they don't want to pay it. Again though, it's a huge company so there's no reason to feel bad for them. While I don't like paying taxes either, and they apparently followed the letter of the law, the truth is that there's a lot of income they didn't pay taxes on. It might be standard practice or good accounting, but that doesn't make it right.

[eutax]: http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-16-2923_en.htm

[appletax]: http://www.apple.com/ie/customer-letter/

[^irelanddisagree]: I'm sure Ireland's government wouldn't say no to the extra taxes, but they also probably don't feel like losing out what they are getting right now in case Apple and other companies decide to leave the country over this. It's not an easy situation for them.

[^bigtax]: For a company that has a mountain of money at least.

